>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
welcome to Vanilla JS and
go building a Fullstack App.
So my name is Maximiliano I can go by Max.
I'm third on most social networks
my website is firt.dev let me
go really quickly about myself.
So I'm from Argentina I live in Buenos
Aires, and I'm a mobile web developer.
So I have been doing web
development since 1996, so
that's long time ago,
almost 30 years doing web development.
In that case, it was just Vanilla,
Vanilla web, Vanilla JavaScript.
We didn't use that term at the time.
Then, of course,
I started doing JavaScript.
I've done more than 160 web apps that
we're publishing along these 30 years,
and I'm an author of many books and
many courses on different technologies,
mostly around web,
mobile web and web performance.
So those are my usual topics
when it comes to courses.
Also, I work with Google in writing
LearnPWA on Progressive Web App.
It's a free course or
free eBook activation.
Kind of an interactive eBook
on progressive web apps.
And on Frontend Masters,
I have several courses on frontend,
mobile apps on native mobile apps.
And some back end courses,
including PHP and Go.
For this workshop, it's a good idea for
you to first go and
have some experience with go and
Vanilla JavaScript.
And I have two other
courses on those topics.
We have Vanilla JavaScript you
might not need a framework, and
basics of Go also,
in case you don't have that experience,
you can start with that
before doing this course.
So what about the contents
of this workshop?
We are going to build a full stack
application, mostly from scratch.
Okay, so we will see all the stages,
all the steps to actually get an up and
running app at the end of the course.
And we're going to start
introducing the project, so
what we're going to be building today.
We're going to set up, first,
the basics of the backend with Go so
we're going to set up the project.
We're going to create a server to
serve first the static files and
also to serve an API that will be RESTful.
Then we will create the database.
So we will talk about the database schema,
the data that we will be using, and
we will be building a RESTful API.
So then a client can consume
the data that's the idea.
After that,
we will start working with the frontend.
And in the frontend, we're going
to be using Vanilla JavaScript.
So we are not going to use any library or
any framework, just plain JavaScript with,
of course, HTML, CSS, and
all the rest of the web technologies.
And we will be using web components
as a way to design our front end.
So we will create a couple
of web components, and
some of those components
will have dynamic rendering,
so they will consume data from the API,
and it will like populate the UI.
After that, we will start working
with search, filter and sort.
So we will see what's the best practice
to actually make that work when
we have a database.
We're going to do
client-side routing as well.
So our app will have several pages,
different pages or views or sections.
So we will use just plain
JavaScript to create the client
side routing system so
we can navigate between pages.
State Management, so we will see
how to store data client side and
keep that synced with the server and for
that, we will focus on authentication.
So we will have a way to register users,
log in the users, and
keep the session active using
one of the latest technologies
available in terms of design patterns
that will let the user keep logged in.
And then we will add favorites and
watch list, and this is what is that?
Well, actually, we are going to
be creating a movies application.
So we will have a list of movies,
actually a huge database of movies,
and we will be able to keep
our favorite movies and
a watch list in this system
in this web app, okay?
So that's kind of the idea.
So prerequisites for this course,
basic JavaScript, basic HTML and CSS.
So the CSS part is the one that we
won't be spending too much time with.
It's actually maybe the only part
that is already pre-written.
So we can just focus on the development
side and on the design side.
Have some familiarity with JavaScript and
DOM API.
So that's what we know
as Vanilla JavaScript.
So if you have ever played with
Git Element by ID or query selector.
Okay, you're good to go.
Basic goal backend development, so just
having a basic idea of go or go Lang and
how to create the basic server, we're
going to do it from scratch anyway, but
it's important for you to have familiarity
with the language and the syntax.
Some SQL and database concept, because
we will be using a SQL based storage.
Actually a Postgres database so if you
have experience just with SQL queries,
understanding primary keys, foreign keys,
all those ideas, that will be good.
And from a software perspective, the only
thing that you need is actually go.
I'm going to be using 1.24, but if you
have 1.20, or even if you have 1.10,
it's probably going to work anyway,
because we are not going to use
the latest versions of the language of
any of the new parts of the language.
And of course, you need a code editor.
I'm going to use Visual Studio code, but
you are free to use any code editor and
just a browser, because this is a web app,
that's all we don't
need a web server because we are going
to code the web server using Go.
This is just one technique
it's not the only technique.
Later we will discuss all the options
that we have when we are building
our full stack application,
but in our case,
we are just going to be
writing everything with code.
So there is a workshop site
it's on GitHub, github.com,
forward/Fernand that's my username and
last name.
Actually, /go-vanillajs, so
there you will find just
kind of a folder that
will be used as a placeholder for
our project.
You have a copy of the slides there also,
there will be the final project
will actually be there as well.
And also we have the dataset because
we are not going to be like typing
movies from scratch.
So I already have a set of movies
that we will use to populate
manipulate the database so
you have all the installation scripts
there that we will see later.
So you can clone that repository.
You can get it,
you can download it manually,
however you wanna work with that.
That will be good enough.
Also, there is a readme file there in
Markdown, the README has a instructions.
So step-by-step instructions of
everything that I will be doing,
it's gonna be pretty much the same.
So I'm going to be live coding
maybe 90% of the project.
But you have here some snippets also
to copy and paste, or in case you
are lost at some points you have you
all these steps by letter and number.
I will be saying, okay,
we are now doing A2, A3, A4, B1, B2, B3.
So this is the app that
we will be building.
This is the final version,
at least for the first steps.
So we have a list of movies we can
get into a movie with details.
We can see the details,
we can see the cast.
We can search for a movie,
like Superman movies,
okay, you can see
everything is pretty fast.
That's because it's Go plus
Vanilla JavaScript, okay?
And we can create, we can log in,
we can register, and
that's kind of the app that we will
be building during this course.